SIMD-0129: Alt_BN128 Syscalls - Simplified Error Code (#129)
solana-foundation/solana-improvement-documents: proposals/0129-alt-bn128-simplified-error-code.md

The output is a point, serialized in standard big endian format.

Note: for performance reasons, this syscall does NOT validate whether the
input is actually an element of G1 or G2.
The intent is to use this syscall in combination with `sol_alt_bn128_group_op`,
that performs validation, and therefore not duplicate the expensive check.

**Fatal Errors.**

- Validate `op` is `0`, `1`, `2`, or `3` (known operation).
- Compute units
- Memory mapping for input/output

**Error Code(s).**

Any error caused while computing the compress or decompress operation
is returned as error code `1`, i.e. `Ok(1)` in Rust.

This includes validating that the input has the valid length,
and decompression is successful.

### Syscall `sol_poseidon`

The syscall [`sol_poseidon`](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/pull/32680)
computes the Poseidon hash on an array of input values.

The syscall accepts the following inputs:

- `parameters`: `0` to represent the choice of the Alt_BN128 curve.
- `endianness`: `0` for big endian input/output, `1` for little endian.
- `vals_len`: number of input values to hash. Max supported 12 values.
- `vals`: the input values to hash. In line with other hash syscalls,

>   this an array of buffers. For Poseidon, each buffer represents an element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  this is an array of buffers. For Poseidon, each buffer represents an element
```

  in the curve scalar field, encoded as 32 bytes, with the specified
  endianness.

The output is an element of the curve scalar field, encoded as 32 bytes,
with the specified endianness.

**Fatal Errors.**

- Validate `parameters` is `0` (known curve).
- Validate `endianness` is `0` or `1` (known endianness).
- Validate `vals_len` is less or equal to 12.
- Compute units
- Memory mapping for input/output

**Error Code(s).**

Any error caused while computing the Poseidon hash function is returned
as error code `1`, i.e. `Ok(1)` in Rust.

This includes validating that the input buffers are valid field elements,
and other errors that may occur while calculating the Poseidon hash.

## Impact

Implementing the error logic inside validators will be much easier and less
error prone.

> Dapp developers will have less fine-grain errors, but this is in line with all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapp developers will have less fine-grained errors, but this is in line with all
```

the other syscalls.

## Security Considerations

> One single error code reduces the risk that two different validator
> implementations could return a different error. Returning different error
> codes could be exploited to cause consensus failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simplifying to one single error code reduces the risk of two different validator
implementations returining different error codes, which could be exploited
to cause a consensus failure.
```
